first draft of general conventions page (#26)
bids-standard/bids-extensions: docs/general_guidelines.md

# BEP general guidelines

Based on the evergrowing set of `BEP`s and the respective work and efforts conducted to develop them, the community has identified a set of general guidelines that can be used to guide the corresponding processes.
These guidelines are not part of the [BIDS specification](https://bids-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html), but rather are recommended to be followed when developing a `BEP`.

> These guidelines are not set in stone and can be modified as needed.

Reviewer: This comment would need further elaboration w.r.t. stated rules and guidelines policing the process of modification. Otherwise, remove.

Author: Did we have some additional information re this? Also asking @yarikoptic, @arokem and @francopestilli?

Reviewer 2: I agree that this is not necessary unless we have something more explicit to say here (I don't think we do)

The guidelines are thus RECOMMENDED, not REQUIRED, in that `BEP`s would be allowed to deviate when deemed necessary.
The goal is to establish consensus so that parts of `BEP`s that propose terms in line with guidelines will be considered accepted in principle. 

## Facilitate atomic changes

See [issue #371](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/issues/371) for motivation and discussion.

> It is recommended to identify perspective entities and metadata fields to be added, and research if they, or their synonyms, are  already considered in submitted PRs or other BEPs.

Author: How about the BEP leads are responsible for this and the maintainers verify?

This suffix pattern provides context through the concatenation of a raw data suffix and the word "`map`", which implies that the file still contains spatially contiguous information (in contrast to tabular/"tidy" data, with each row representing a brain region, for example).

This pattern is, in principle, generalizable across `BEP`s and derivatives in general:

  1. A data process might have generated primary parameters that are either `3D (x,y,z)` or `4D (x,y,z,v)`. These parameters might be of help for further data analysis or data interpretation, and ultimately the data end user. Examples include "statistics" such as mean, std, etc., or model derivatives, such as `DTI FA`.

  2. At the same time, the process might have generated secondary parameters. These are not strictly necessary for further processing or data interpretation, but they can be potentially useful to interpret the outputs of the data process, to track history of the processing, for reproducibility and ultimately for debugging purposes of the developer/modeler of the code.

### Examples

#### BEP 23: PET Derivatives

> `BEP 23` has introduced "`maps`" that correspond to the conventions introduced by `BEP 001 (qMRI)`, such as `T1map`, `T2map`, etc. The following maps were introduced:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`BEP 23` has introduced "`maps`" that correspond to the conventions introduced by `BEP 001 (qMRI)`, such as `T1map`, `T2map`, etc.
The following maps were introduced:
```

This suffix pattern provides context through the concatenation of a raw data suffix and the word "`map`", which implies that the file still contains spatially contiguous information (in contrast to tabular/"tidy" data, with each row representing a brain region, for example).

This pattern is, in principle, generalizable across `BEP`s and derivatives in general:

  1. A data process might have generated primary parameters that are either `3D (x,y,z)` or `4D (x,y,z,v)`.
      These parameters might be of help for further data analysis or data interpretation, and ultimately the data end user. Examples include "statistics" such as mean, std, etc., or model derivatives, such as `DTI FA`.

  2. At the same time, the process might have generated secondary parameters.
      These are not strictly necessary for further processing or data interpretation, but they can be potentially useful to interpret the outputs of the data process, to track history of the processing, for reproducibility and ultimately for debugging purposes of the developer/modeler of the code.

### Examples

#### BEP 23: PET Derivatives

> `BEP 23` has introduced "`maps`" that correspond to the conventions introduced by `BEP 001 (qMRI)`, such as `T1map`, `T2map`, etc.
> The following maps were introduced:
> 
> * `RDmap` (receptor density map)
> * `BPmap` (binding potential map)
> * `GEmap` (genetic expression map)
> 
> These generally will be distributed as mean/standard-deviation pairs, for example: `sub-01_stat-mean_desc-5HT_RDmap.nii.gz`/`sub-01_stat-std_desc-5HT_RDmap.nii.gz`.

Reviewer 3: I believe this was the latest consensus? cc @mnoergaard @melanieganz

```suggestion
`BEP 23` has introduced Molecular Imaging Maps "`mimap`s" that correspond to the conventions introduced by `BEP 001 (qMRI)`, such as `T1map`, `T2map`, etc.

These generally will be distributed as mean/standard-deviation pairs, for example: `sub-01_stat-mean_desc-5HT_mimap.nii.gz`/`sub-01_stat-std_desc-5HT_mimap.nii.gz`.
```

Author: Thx @effigies, I'll wait for @melanieganz and @mnoergaard to reply and then commit the changes.

Reviewer 4: Dear @PeerHerholz and @effigies, the change to mimap, that @effigies corrected it to above looks good for @mnoergaard and me.

Reviewer 4: And I will let the maintainers do the merging.
